Hi and welcome to the first real technical section of this course.
So we're going to kick things off with a topic that is very near and dear to my heart personally.
It's something that I love to do as a developer but I especially love to teach.
It's something that I think is pretty engaging to learn as well.
So that topic is animations and s. s. s. s. s. s. s. comes with a couple of different in tools for creating
animations ranging from really simple things like a hover effect up to pretty complex full blown animations
that you would expect from maybe an artist even narrative animations.
Now we're not going to get into that.
We're not going to get into creating short films or anything with C Ss which is technically possible
but we are going to focus on the more practical elements so that means in practice is that we'll start
off by talking about the different tools that we need.
Things like CSSA transforms transitions as well as keyframe animations.
So we'll learn those different tools and then we'll learn to put them together to make a couple of different
projects.
But before we get there I love doing this.
I just want to show a couple of really cool examples of what people have done with animations and then
I also want to discuss why animations really matter.
It's not just that they're flashy or impressive but we'll start off by taking a look at things that
are flashy and impressive.
The first one I want to talk about is a site called in pieces 30 species 30 pieces or species in pieces
species and PCs.
Basically it's an amazing web site that has 30 animated little visuals of 30 different endangered species.
So if we click on one let's take the African penguin can see that it's formed from what those 30 triangles
here.
And that's kind of the 30 pieces part of the name.
But any time I go to another animal those same thirty triangles reconfigure that change shape but they're
still triangles that change color and they change position to form or another animal.
So now we have the Greek red damsel and so on.
So I guess spend forever looking at this playing with it.
It's a really cool site to check out.
It works on mobile as well.
Really impressive stuff but it's all done with CSSA And that's actually what I find more impressive.
So we won't unfortunately be getting into creating something like this.
This is as much art as it is web development but we will learn the tools that this use is that this
is built upon.
Another thing I'll show you is this site for a French creative agency.
It's just a portfolio page or a marketing page but has a ton of animations going on.
So aside from the cool art style can see simple things like these glasses the sunglasses have a glare
animating But then you know there's this nice little bouncy effect here and over here as well.
Let me refresh the page so that you can see what happens.
There's this loading icon and then that cool.
I don't know what to call that sort of liquid effect as it loads and that's all done with CSSA as well.
And I could go on and on a bunch of other examples as students in my previous courses can attest.
I just find cool CSSA projects really fun.
I want to take a moment to now go back to something more real world are more applicable to your life
and to most developers lives.
We're not usually creating these amazing art pieces.
We're usually adding animations to more traditional webapps.
So I'm on the TO ME HOME page here and there's a bunch of animations that you may or may not notice
as you use the site day to day.
So things like you know I hover over a course let's say the web fell for bootcamp we get a sort of opacity
effect where it dims a little bit to show that it's selected and then slowly this over or this pop up
fades in on the right side.
It's not immediate.
It fades in.
And that was a choice that the developers made.
Similarly if I resize the page here take a look at the hamburger menu as a quick on it.
We have this nice animated slide out.
So this is a pretty common thing on mobile apps to have animated rather than just having it appear out
of nowhere.
It makes for a better experience a lot a lot of people would argue to have it fade in or have it slide
in like that.
So just two simple things that you may not notice but there's animations all over the place on sites
and most of the time they're not that intrusive.